README.md, before:

NXP Security Controller (SCCv2) - Linux driver
==============================================

The SCCv2 is a built-in hardware module that implements secure RAM and a
dedicated AES cryptographic engine for encryption/decryption operations.

A device specific random 256-bit SCC key is fused in each SoC at manufacturing
time, this key is unreadable and can only be used with the SCCv2 for AES
encryption/decryption of user data.

This directory contains a Linux kernel driver for the SCCv2 and an additional
interfacing module, which allocates character device `/dev/scc2_aes` for
userspace encryption and decryption operations.

The kernel driver is a port of the original Freescale one for Linux 3.x with
assorted bugfixes and the addition of a new separate character device driver.

Authors
=======

Andrea Barisani <andrea@inversepath.com>  
Andrej Rosano   <andrej@inversepath.com>  

Based on a driver from Freescale Semiconductor, Inc., additional thanks to
Julian Horsch <julian.horsch@aisec.fraunhofer.de> for its contribution to the
port.

Compiling
=========

The following instructions assume compilation on a native armv7 architecture,
when cross compiling adjust `ARCH` and `CROSS_COMPILE` variables accordingly.

```
# the Makefile attempts to locate your Linux kernel source tree, if this fails
# it can be passed with a Makefile variable (e.g. `make KERNEL_SRC=path`)
git clone https://github.com/inversepath/mxc-scc2
cd mxc-scc2
make
make modules_install
```

Once installed the two resulting modules can be loaded in the traditional
manner:

```
modprobe scc2     # SCCv2 driver
modprobe scc2_aes # character device driver for userspace access
```

The probing of the SCCv2 module depends on its the Device Tree (dts) inclusion
in running Linux kernel. The following example is taken from the USB armory
[dts](https://github.com/inversepath/usbarmory/blob/master/software/kernel_conf/imx53-usbarmory-scc2.dts)
which includes the SCCv2 device for its i.MX53 SoC:

```
	soc {
		aips@60000000 {
			scc2: scc2@63fb4000 {
				compatible = "fsl,imx53-scc2";
				reg = <0x63fb4000 0x4000>,
				      <0x07000000 0x4000>;
				interrupts = <21 23>;
			};
		};
	};
```

Character device interface
==========================

The following IOCTLs are defined for character device `/dev/scc2_aes`:

```
ioctl(file, SET_MODE, ENCRYPT_CBC)
  Sets AES-256 encryption with Cipher Block Chaining (CBC)

ioctl(file, SET_MODE, DECRYPT_CBC)
  Sets AES-256 decryption with Cipher Block Chaining (CBC)

ioctl(file, SET_IV, (char *) iv)
  Sets the Initialization Vector (IV), this is required only once before
  encryption/decryption. After the first block ciphersing the SCCv2
  internally updates the IV in CBC mode.
```

Once the mode and IV are set, plaintext/ciphertext can be sent to the SCCv2 for
encryption/decryption by issuing a `write()` operation of 16-bytes blocks on
`/dev/scc2_aes`, up to 256 blocks (4096 bytes) can be sent at once.

Each `write()` operation must be followed by a `read()` of the same size to
read back the results, inconsistent operations will cause errors.

Example (psuedocode):
```
fd = open("/dev/scc2_aes", O_RDWR)

ioctl(fd, SET_IV, iv)

ioctl(fd, SET_MODE, ENCRYPT_CBC)
write(fd, plaintext, 4096)
read(fd, ciphertext, 4096)

ioctl(fd, SET_MODE, DECRYPT_CBC)
write(fd, ciphertext, 4096)
read(fd, plaintext, 4096)
```

A userspace example usage, with OpenSSL test comparison, is provided in the
[scc2_test](https://github.com/inversepath/mxc-scc2/blob/master/scc2_test) Ruby
script. The [INTERLOCK](https://github.com/inversepath/interlock) file
encryption front-end supports the SCCv2 through this driver, providing a Go
userspace implementation reference.

**IMPORTANT**: the SCCv2 internal key is available only when Secure Boot (HAB)
is enabled, otherwise the AES-256 NIST standard test key is set. For this
reason the OpenSSL and SCCv2 output comparison of the `scc2_test` script
matches only on units that do not have HAB enabled. The secure operation of the
SCCv2, in production deployments, should always be paired with Secure Boot
activation.

The `scc2_aes` module, when not in Secure State, issues the following warning
at load time:

```
scc2_aes: WARNING - not in Secure State, NIST test key in effect
```

When Secure State is correctly detected the module issues following message at
load time:

```
scc2_aes: Secure State detected
```

The following reference output illustrates a reference test run on a
[USB armory](https://inversepath.com/usbarmory) without Secure Boot enabled.

```
NIST test AES-256 key:        603deb1015ca71be2b73aef0857d7781
                              1f352c073b6108d72d9810a30914dff4
initialization vector:        000102030405060708090a0b0c0d0e0f
plaintext:                    6bc1bee22e409f96e93d7e117393172a

ciphertext round 1 (OpenSSL): f58c4c04d6e5f1ba779eabfb5f7bfbd6
ciphertext round 1 (SCCv2):   f58c4c04d6e5f1ba779eabfb5f7bfbd6
ciphertext round 2 (OpenSSL): eb2d9e942831bd84dff00db9776b8088
ciphertext round 2 (SCCv2):   eb2d9e942831bd84dff00db9776b8088
        match!

 plaintext round 1 (OpenSSL): 6bc1bee22e409f96e93d7e117393172a
 plaintext round 1 (SCCv2):   6bc1bee22e409f96e93d7e117393172a
 plaintext round 2 (OpenSSL): 6bc1bee22e409f96e93d7e117393172a
 plaintext round 2 (SCCv2):   6bc1bee22e409f96e93d7e117393172a
        match!

```

License
=======

NXP Security Controller (SCCv2) driver | https://github.com/inversepath/mxc-scc2

Copyright (c) 2016 Inverse Path S.r.l.  
Copyright (c) 2004-2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation under version 3 of the License.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

See accompanying LICENSE file for full details.

Commit message:

add reference to usbarmory-debian-base_image Makefile

README.md, after:

NXP Security Controller (SCCv2) - Linux driver
==============================================

The SCCv2 is a built-in hardware module that implements secure RAM and a
dedicated AES cryptographic engine for encryption/decryption operations.

A device specific random 256-bit SCC key is fused in each SoC at manufacturing
time, this key is unreadable and can only be used with the SCCv2 for AES
encryption/decryption of user data.

This directory contains a Linux kernel driver for the SCCv2 and an additional
interfacing module, which allocates character device `/dev/scc2_aes` for
userspace encryption and decryption operations.

The kernel driver is a port of the original Freescale one for Linux 3.x with
assorted bugfixes and the addition of a new separate character device driver.

Authors
=======

Andrea Barisani <andrea@inversepath.com>  
Andrej Rosano   <andrej@inversepath.com>  

Based on a driver from Freescale Semiconductor, Inc., additional thanks to
Julian Horsch <julian.horsch@aisec.fraunhofer.de> for its contribution to the
port.

Compiling
=========

*NOTE*: USB armory users can automate Linux kernel compilation, along with the
mxc-scc2 driver, using the Makefile (`mxc-scc2` target) from its Debian base image
[repository](https://github.com/inversepath/usbarmory-debian-base_image).

The following instructions assume compilation on a native armv7 architecture,
when cross compiling adjust `ARCH` and `CROSS_COMPILE` variables accordingly.

```
# the Makefile attempts to locate your Linux kernel source tree, if this fails
# it can be passed with a Makefile variable (e.g. `make KERNEL_SRC=path`)
git clone https://github.com/inversepath/mxc-scc2
cd mxc-scc2
make
make modules_install
```

Once installed the two resulting modules can be loaded in the traditional
manner:

```
modprobe scc2     # SCCv2 driver
modprobe scc2_aes # character device driver for userspace access
```

The probing of the SCCv2 module depends on its the Device Tree (dts) inclusion
in running Linux kernel. The following example is taken from the USB armory
[dts](https://github.com/inversepath/usbarmory/blob/master/software/kernel_conf/imx53-usbarmory-scc2.dts)
which includes the SCCv2 device for its i.MX53 SoC:

```
	soc {
		aips@60000000 {
			scc2: scc2@63fb4000 {
				compatible = "fsl,imx53-scc2";
				reg = <0x63fb4000 0x4000>,
				      <0x07000000 0x4000>;
				interrupts = <21 23>;
			};
		};
	};
```

Character device interface
==========================

The following IOCTLs are defined for character device `/dev/scc2_aes`:

```
ioctl(file, SET_MODE, ENCRYPT_CBC)
  Sets AES-256 encryption with Cipher Block Chaining (CBC)

ioctl(file, SET_MODE, DECRYPT_CBC)
  Sets AES-256 decryption with Cipher Block Chaining (CBC)

ioctl(file, SET_IV, (char *) iv)
  Sets the Initialization Vector (IV), this is required only once before
  encryption/decryption. After the first block ciphersing the SCCv2
  internally updates the IV in CBC mode.
```

Once the mode and IV are set, plaintext/ciphertext can be sent to the SCCv2 for
encryption/decryption by issuing a `write()` operation of 16-bytes blocks on
`/dev/scc2_aes`, up to 256 blocks (4096 bytes) can be sent at once.

Each `write()` operation must be followed by a `read()` of the same size to
read back the results, inconsistent operations will cause errors.

Example (psuedocode):
```
fd = open("/dev/scc2_aes", O_RDWR)

ioctl(fd, SET_IV, iv)

ioctl(fd, SET_MODE, ENCRYPT_CBC)
write(fd, plaintext, 4096)
read(fd, ciphertext, 4096)

ioctl(fd, SET_MODE, DECRYPT_CBC)
write(fd, ciphertext, 4096)
read(fd, plaintext, 4096)
```

A userspace example usage, with OpenSSL test comparison, is provided in the
[scc2_test](https://github.com/inversepath/mxc-scc2/blob/master/scc2_test) Ruby
script. The [INTERLOCK](https://github.com/inversepath/interlock) file
encryption front-end supports the SCCv2 through this driver, providing a Go
userspace implementation reference.

**IMPORTANT**: the SCCv2 internal key is available only when Secure Boot (HAB)
is enabled, otherwise the AES-256 NIST standard test key is set. For this
reason the OpenSSL and SCCv2 output comparison of the `scc2_test` script
matches only on units that do not have HAB enabled. The secure operation of the
SCCv2, in production deployments, should always be paired with Secure Boot
activation.

The `scc2_aes` module, when not in Secure State, issues the following warning
at load time:

```
scc2_aes: WARNING - not in Secure State, NIST test key in effect
```

When Secure State is correctly detected the module issues following message at
load time:

```
scc2_aes: Secure State detected
```

The following reference output illustrates a reference test run on a
[USB armory](https://inversepath.com/usbarmory) without Secure Boot enabled.

```
NIST test AES-256 key:        603deb1015ca71be2b73aef0857d7781
                              1f352c073b6108d72d9810a30914dff4
initialization vector:        000102030405060708090a0b0c0d0e0f
plaintext:                    6bc1bee22e409f96e93d7e117393172a

ciphertext round 1 (OpenSSL): f58c4c04d6e5f1ba779eabfb5f7bfbd6
ciphertext round 1 (SCCv2):   f58c4c04d6e5f1ba779eabfb5f7bfbd6
ciphertext round 2 (OpenSSL): eb2d9e942831bd84dff00db9776b8088
ciphertext round 2 (SCCv2):   eb2d9e942831bd84dff00db9776b8088
        match!

 plaintext round 1 (OpenSSL): 6bc1bee22e409f96e93d7e117393172a
 plaintext round 1 (SCCv2):   6bc1bee22e409f96e93d7e117393172a
 plaintext round 2 (OpenSSL): 6bc1bee22e409f96e93d7e117393172a
 plaintext round 2 (SCCv2):   6bc1bee22e409f96e93d7e117393172a
        match!

```

License
=======

NXP Security Controller (SCCv2) driver | https://github.com/inversepath/mxc-scc2

Copyright (c) 2016 Inverse Path S.r.l.  
Copyright (c) 2004-2011 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation under version 3 of the License.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

See accompanying LICENSE file for full details.
